---
title: "About"
bg: blue
color: white
fa-icon: info
---

#### Basically

The **RHQ** is upstream project for **JBoss ON**. It is written mostly in Java. For storing the metrics we use our own version of Cassandra. RHQ is very easily extendable on the agent-side (agent plugins) as well as on the server side (server plugins). Interfacing with RHQ can be achieved using Rest API or <acronym title="Command Line Interface">CLI</acronym> (Javascript or Python).


###Features###


* **Inventory**

  Inventory is responsible for finding and tracking the platforms, servers and services that will be managed using RHQ. This system provides auto-discovery for easier deployment and thorough models of deployed systems and applications. It provides the central administrator the ability to configure which features will be used on which targeted services.

* **Configuration**

  Configuration supports reading, updating, and tracking changes to the settings for managed resources. These configuration changes can be tracked historical and even detect changes made outside the system while providing an audited history and the ability to roll back to previous versions for supported resources.

* **Monitoring**

  Monitoring manages the collection of statistics and state for managed products and the setup of collection intervals and details. This system also provides running baselines to show metrics that go out of their normal ranges.

* **Alerts**

  The Alerts feature set integrates with other subsystems to provide notifications of user defined conditions. This can be utilized to notify administrators of performance problems or failed operations. Complex conditions allow for detailed alert situations to be modelled while dampening allows for the right semantics to occur before notification of administrators occur.

* **Operations**

  Operations offer the ability to execute actions against managed resources in the inventory. These operations depend on the resource, but can include actions such as stop, start and restart as well as clearing caches or gathering detailed operation information.
Provisioning
Also known as the "Bundle" subsystem, RHQ's Provisioning feature allows you to deploy packages of software to remote machines, thus allowing you to install and upgrade software.

{: style="margin-top:70px;"}
We also support drift detection, provisioning of content, creating and working with groups of resources, events (logs), etc. For richer list of features goto the [**wiki**](https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/RHQ/Features).

{: style="margin-top:70px;"}
####For more basic info I suggest visiting [**FAQ**](https://docs.jboss.org/author/display/RHQ/FAQ).####
